The Project Gutenberg eBook of Werwile of the Crystal Crypt, by Gardner F.
Fox

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Werwile of the Crystal Crypt

Author: Gardner F. Fox

Release Date: February 12, 2021 [eBook #64531]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WERWILE OF THE CRYSTAL CRYPT ***




                     WERWILE OF THE CRYSTAL CRYPT

                           By GARDNER F. FOX

            His black science threatened the whole cosmos.
          Against him frail Princess Nuala thrust her ancient
            knowledge--but he sneeringly smashed that. And
           space-toughened Clark Travis stood by helplessly.
              Of what use here was a pair of ready fists?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


He should have known better. He admitted that, now. Listening to the
spacemen in Trixon and Cleg would have saved his skin. They told him
that Flormaseron was a hellhole where Creation had run mad. The only
thing was, even they hadn't known how bad it was. Clark Travis worked
the walnut stud of his _stil_ disintegrator hopefully, but when it
sputtered he gave it up.

The arklings were coming for him. Through the opening in the stone
traceries of the ancient doorway, he saw the red aura that floated
over them as they came up the stone ramp. Clark turned and ran along
the sloping floor, down into the black, labyrinthine windings of the
ancient city. His spacebooted feet made soft, slapping sounds. His
beamlight cast a white brilliant glow ahead of him. He ran past several
intersecting corridors before he skidded around a corner into one.

Clark Travis lost himself in the ruins. He went down into the bowels of
this city that was in its glory before the Earth had been more than a
spinning ball of fire in space. He saw odd animals carved in the walls,
queerly human things at work on ships and weapons, tall men and lovely
women etched in bas-relief in the marble.

The deeper down he went, the more he was putting himself in the
arklings' power. They were familiar with this rotting pile of masonry,
where the tunnels were dark strips out of Hades. Their red aura lighted
the winding passageways. Clark only had his beamlight for the blackness.

He snapped off the power, stood waiting. His breath came softly. The
tunnels were black, as black as space itself; as black as Martin
Kent's eyes had been when he first told him about Flormaseron and the
sleeping goddess of the crystal crypt.

"She isn't a goddess, of course," Kent had said, seriously. "She's
the last remnant of the first race that ever came into existence. The
product of a million generations of culture and scientific knowledge.
When the disaster struck at her people, the chief scientists encased
her in a block of crystal and hid her somewhere on Flormaseron. She's
still there--and still alive.

"Think of it, Clark! A woman with the knowledge of such a race. Before
they enclosed her, they thought-fed her brain with knowledge, and so
arranged the crystal that during all the years of her interment, she
would learn! A brain like that--why it would revolutionize our own
culture. The Earth'd go millions of years ahead in science, if we could
only find her--and bring her back to life!"

Travis had said, "If she's entombed on a hellhole like Flormaseron,
how'd you ever hear of her?"

Martin Kent took Travis by the arm, led him out the door of his office
and into the museum corridor. Here in Solar Museum, Mars Division, Kent
was absolute ruler. Behind him he had the billions of credits that
Earth and Mars and Venus poured into their cultural endeavors. From
all over the solar system Solar brought stuffed animals, crumbling
bricks from ancient cities, rusted weapons that experts studied and
reconstructed in glittering _stil_.

They walked past a panoramic window of a Venusian sea-bottom and into a
narrow room that held a safe inset in its east wall. Kent put the flat
of his hand on the lock, and waited. A deep humming throbbed from
behind the glistening metal wall. The huge door swung open.

Kent reached in and brought out a tiny vial of green metal. He
unscrewed the lid, withdrew a folded scroll. "It's all here, Clark.
Stylogrammed on flexible metal. It's ages old. One of our field parties
came across it in a dried sea-bed on Clex. It puzzled us a long time,
until Fielding came across a key to the writing, and translated it."

Travis turned the metallic paper over, looked at the queerly graceful
writing. He looked at Kent inquiringly.

Kent smiled, "Well, what do you say? I'd go myself if I were younger.
And, if it didn't cost so much, I'd send a field party. But it's a
gamble, and the Board probably wouldn't agree to spending credits on
it. But one man could go. One man--like you."

Travis grinned. He was tall and saturnine, brown with the heat of many
suns. His body had been hardened on the deserts of Proxima Centauri,
and under the seas of Venus.

Kent went on, "You're the best archaeologist I know. You've been in
tight spots before. You can fight, if you have to. A thing like trouble
is an old friend to you."

Travis remembered the polyps in the Venusian water-caves where he'd
almost lost an arm before he got past them to bring the museum the
only specimen of the primal undine race of Venus ever seen above the
sea-mists. He had found a petrified boat on Sirius' third planet, to
prove that at one time there had been seas on that baked potato of a
planet. But for the last six months he had moped around Mars Port,
studying alluvial deposits, wishing for something to take him and his
equipment out into the star-paths again.

"I'll go, Mart. And if you'd only shaved this morning I might kiss you
for the chance!"

Kent laughed and waved a hand. "Order what you need. I guess the museum
can afford a few thousand credits, considering your record--even on
such a gamble."

       *       *       *       *       *

Travis took his spaceboat out from Mars to Titan, and then on to
Proxima Centauri. He asked questions in taverns and study halls. He
heard of the _arklings_, of the ruined cities and temples. He heard
of the _arklings'_ hate for strangers. But Travis didn't scare easily.
He checked his weapons and equipment, tossed in an extra case of
_safusas_-wine and waved a farewell.

In the darkness he tried to grin and failed. He could hear them coming,
at a distance. Their queer _slip-pat_ footsounds carried a long way. He
couldn't tell just how far away they were.

Travis went on, into the darkness.

The light came suddenly, as he rounded a bend in the tunnel. It was
milky-red, like the ancient ko-yao porcelains, delicately flushed and
tinted. It shook as a veil might in a breeze. It bellied and leaped. It
sent its streamers into the blackness and lighted up the tunnel.

There was a queer menace about the light, a beating like the breath of
an angry Sindri, Venus-god of fire. It came in little pinkish puffs.
There was no heat, only that overbearing menace. Through the pink
light, Travis thought he saw queerly shaped forms standing still and
brooding. There was a series of cones, and huge globes that seemed to
float in an orbit--

He did not hear the _slip-pat_ until too late. A hairy body landed on
his shoulders and he pitched to his knees on the eon-old stone floor.
As he fell he whirled and brought his _stil_-gun up. It was empty, but
the long, ringed barrel sideswiped the _arkling's_ face and knocked him
away.

Travis got to his feet as the others hurtled at him. Giant hands that
were smooth-palmed and hairy-backed hasked at his arms and leather
space-harness. He slammed fists at the faces revealed by the floating
red aura over them. He tried to use footwork, but the space was too
narrow. It was kill or be killed, and he just didn't have the strength
to stop them.

A palm caught him on the ear and sent his head ringing like a carrillon
tower. A fanged mouth fastened on his thigh, biting deep. Another hand
raked at his naked arm and gouged out flesh.

Travis leaped for them, hoping to run over their bodies and go back up
the tunnel faster than they could follow. But a big _arkling_ rose up
from the pack and swung a flat hand. The blow caught him on his chest,
sent him reeling and sickened, back and back--

The _arklings_ cried out just as the pink light swept up all around
Travis. The menace was unbearable as he fell back and into the pale
barrier. It bathed him and whispered to him and threatened him with
queer and maddening ways to die. It caught him in its tenuous folds and
held him there, cradled, as the voices told him of a water-death that
took eleven years, each year more painful than the last; they gloated
over a spit and a fire of red coals that cooked a man over a space of
months; they whimpered, themselves scarcely daring to think of the
barbaric tortures of Rudra the eternal....

A cool something touched his forehead. Travis tried to focus his eyes
through the subtle distortions of the pink mists. He saw the twin blue
pools at first, and then the yellow shower of hair graced with the
triangular headgear blazing with jewels. The blue pool were her eyes,
and they were wide and open, and filled with a wisdom that made Travis
shudder deep in his guts.

And yet, there was a _fear_ in those blue eyes, too.

She wore a transparent film with a slender golden thong looped at her
middle. She murmured, "You are Clark Travis, an Earth-thing. You came
to kidnap me. Yes. And the _arklings_ have harmed you."

The woman turned and stared toward the tunnel. A white hand fumbled at
her girdle, drew out a pencil-thin rod of metal. She went away from
Travis and stepped into the tunnel. Travis tried to watch her, but the
pain of his wounds, and the ringing in his temples bothered his eyes.
There was a terrific green flare that tinted the pale pink light--

And silence.

Travis knew the _arklings_ were just so much powder drifting from
tunnel ceiling and wall.

The woman came back, seeming to float through the light. She brooded
at him with her wise eyes. Travis could read the fear in them more
distinctly, now.

       *       *       *       *       *

She put out a hand and closed her warm fingers on his. She led him
through the beams of pink light and into white brilliance, into a room
that he had beheld briefly through the pink mists from the tunnel. The
cone-towers were there, grouped by threes around the room. And the
globes that rotated lazily overhead in orbits were fiery with golden
luminescence. They warmed Travis as they floated.

In the middle of the room lay a huge crystal, scooped hollow by some
long-dead artisan. It had indentations and mounds in it. Travis
realized it was carved with exact care to fit a reclining body. From
the walls of the crystal calyx stemmed thin golden wires, reaching
across to the cones. And against the wall, humming and throbbing, were
the dynamos and engines that fed the cones.

"I am Nuala," the girl said in her silvery voice. "I am of the
Nekkalad, the first humanoid race in our universe. I have been encased
in the calyx for eons. Unrememberable eons. I have seen the rise and
fall of your planet, and the fall of others. I have seen--"

She broke off, shuddering.

Travis said wonderingly, "You look so young. If it weren't that Martin
Kent told me about you, I'd--"

She let him look at her, standing with her eyes lowered. Travis had
seen the _landuli_, the dancing girls raised by the princes of Orion-3;
had seen the white-tressed houris of Venus; had seen the golden women
bred for men's pleasure by the Kafars of Proxima Centauri. He had
never seen anyone as lovely as this first woman. Her legs were long
and white, her hips gently rounded. The high arch of her breasts were
poetry.

And then she raised her lashes.

Her blue eyes were ancient as space itself, as filled with nameless
knowledge, with wisdom beyond Travis's understanding. They had beheld
all things, from the slug that came out of a borning world's ocean
bottom to the scribblings of the universe's mightiest scientist. Her
ears had heard the songs of Sull and the symphonies of Bach and Lyrn.

Travis was aware of all that staring into her eyes. He whispered,
"But--how?"

She gestured at the calyx and the wires. "Those machines feed me
energy that I need to stay alive. They also feed me the intellectual
stimulation I need to stay sane.

"Man's thoughts can be recorded. You know that. Therefore they give off
some electrical flow. I will not go into the whys of it. You would not
understand. But those electrical flows never die. They fade and fade,
almost to nothingness--but not quite. The dynamos here pick them up,
amplify them.

"Here in the crystal calyx I have been fed all thought since the
Werwile smashed Flormaseron. I spent years with a being called the
Discoverer--before he disappeared into some strange twisting of the
space-time continuum. It was he who warned me of Rudra, the Werwile. He
said he was stirring--about to come again."

Travis muttered, "The Werwile?"

The girl laughed softly at his puzzled face. "The Werwile, yes. The
eternal one. He who never sleeps. He who knows all things. Your race
calls him Devil ... a race-memory of the first beginnings of the
humanoid cell, of the one who smashed the first race just when it was
rising to its glory. All your legends, all the legends of all men
contain mention of him. The Rebel. Loki. Venus's Badal. Cygni's Daldal."

"You mean, there is someone like that? An actual person?"

"Why not? Your race has dreamed of immortality. So has every race. The
Werwile found it."

Travis hooked his thumbs in the metal loops of his space-harness and
waited. Nuala walked about the big chamber, touching a glittering cone,
staring up at a whirling golden globe.

She went on, "He found it, smashed his own people in a holocaust of
destruction, and went into another cosmos. Now he is coming back. The
irony of it is that he hollowed out this crystal crypt himself--and
it was here he built his own evil knowledge. My people put me here,
thinking he would never return...."

Travis chuckled, "What can one man do to worry you?"

She looked at him, and her contempt was as tangible as a slap across
the face. "You are a child. Just a baby. You don't dream of the
sciences that Rudra will employ. He can sweep your Earth-empire ahead
of him as a breeze takes a dry leaf. Look about you. See the cones, the
globes, and ask yourself--can your science duplicate them? And then
ask, if Rudra, the Werwile, smashed a civilization that could produce
all this, what will he do against Earth?"

The fear in the blue eyes touched Travis then, under the leather of his
belt. His stomach tightened. Nervously, he licked at his dry lips. He
thought of Mars Port, of New York Terminal, of the giant spacers that
plied the starways throughout the System, of the jewels and food and
riches they carried in their holds. He thought of his Iowa home, of his
parents. He visualized that culture, those people, all smashed.

He whispered, "What can we do?"

Nuala shrugged white shoulders. "Nothing. If Rudra smashed the
Nekkalad, what can your Earth-people do?"

"We can fight!" Travis grated.

She was amused. "How?"

"We could attack him, before he suspects. He does not know that we
know. A little surprise might turn the trick."

The pain of his wounds made him dizzy, but it seemed to Travis that
Nuala opened her eyes in surprise. She gloomed at him long moments,
a white-fingered hand toying with the golden hemp of her girdle. She
murmured softly, "Surprise? Yes, a sudden attack might work. If we
could get past the barbarians who guard him, there is something we
might do."

Her face grew blurred in his eyes. He saw her as through a mist. He was
falling away from her, dropping. She cried out in alarm, ran toward
him. Her soft hands caught him, but could not hold his big body. He hit
the floor and lay still.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was perfume in his nostrils, and a faint murmur of sound. Travis
opened his eyes, lay staring up at the white ceiling of the crystal
crypt. He turned his neck, saw Nuala with oddly-shaped jars set before
her on a long, flat tabletop.

She was murmuring, "If only I were sure of the cell formation, it would
be easy. Not like ours, yet different from that of the _arklings_.
This ... yes, this might be the right one."

She came toward him a blue jar grooved and opaque in her hand. Smiling
at him, she unscrewed the top and dipped her fingers inside. She
brought out a reddish jelly that she smoothed gently into the bite in
his thigh, then into the torn flesh of his arm. There was faint pain, a
tingle of nausea.

"It will pass," said Nuala. "The red jelly is _celluvalin_. It is--you
might call it plastic flesh. It has the cell formation of blood and
sinew, and will knit and unite with the torn sections of your body."

Travis lay still. The pain was going swiftly. Tentatively he flexed his
leg. It moved easily. He grinned, "You could make a fortune with that
on Earth or Mars. What the Fleet wouldn't give for plastic flesh. Whew!"

Nuala sighed and replaced the jars. "If we defeat Rudra, I will return
to the calyx. There is no place in the world for me."

Travis saw the blue eyes and the tiredness, the wisdom and knowledge
behind them, and bit at his lip. She was right. Earth and Mars,
even Cyngi and Lalande-80 would be boring to her. She knew too much
to be happy with anyone less intelligent than she. And that meant
everyone--except the Werwile.

Travis swung his long legs in their torn spaceslacks off the table. He
ran his hands over the broad leathern belt that held his _stil_-gun and
holster, over the leather-and-cloth jerkin with the ripped sleeves.

"Guess I'm ready to go. I feel good again. But I'd like to stay that
way. Do you have another of those pencil-things?"

He pointed at her girdle. She drew out the weapon and smiled, "You mean
the displacer. It forces the electrons of an object out of their orbit.
Turns them into other orbits, and makes them dust."

She went to a drawer, drew out three of the pencil-guns, and handed
them to him. "You will be safe with these."

Nuala went to the pink barrier and beckoned to him. "Hurry. The sooner
we surprise Rudra, the better."

The _arklings_ left them strictly alone. They went up through the
tunnels, past the carven walls to the ruins of the Nekkalad temples.
Sprawled across acres of the barren, pitted surface of the planet, the
white towers and jagged walls of the once-massive buildings were like
huge play-things scattered by a child-giant in petulant anger.

Nuala breathed, "Before Rudra came and smashed them, they were the
loveliest things in all the universe."

The silvered hull of Travis's spacer lay a hundred yards from the
crumbled wall, on a bed of powdered black rock. Nuala walked around
it, frowning. She shook her head, her long yellow hair fluttering about
her shoulders.

"It will never make the trip. There are things to be done to it."

She looked at him, troubled. She asked, "Do you know what a Calakin
curvature-annihilator is? Or a Wilwal warping-beam?"

Travis shook his head.

Nuala said, "I will have to make them, then. You do have a workshop,
I know. I read your thoughts as you came toward Nekkalad. Even before
that, in Mars Port with Martin Kent."

She went up the metal ladder into the ship. She walked with calm
assurance toward the repair room. Travis came after her, wondering, a
little rattled. It was odd to see a woman so familiar with his life,
with his own inner thoughts. He thought of Jonquilon, the red-headed
dancer at Mars Port. Cheeks red, he settled himself on a bench, and
watched her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nuala was murmuring, "We'll need a speed-up job on your rockets to
get them through the Break. And a super-blaster to add to your own
space-warper. Hmm ... wires all right. Sheet metal not too strong, but
it'll do...."

Her voice droned on. Travis found himself lost in contemplation of her.
She looked like any girl you might see in the Chez Saturn or Planetary
Park. She might be fussing over a jalanadon steak instead of a
space-warper. If it weren't for her eyes ... so blue ... but so filled
with that frightening knowledge, with wisdom, she'd make a guy a swell
wife. He wondered how she kissed.

"Now you must help me," she said, turning to him. She saw his abrupt
change of expression and brooded at him. She shook her head suddenly
and held out a small engine rigged with wheels and wires, with
armatures and generator. "Attach it to the drive shaft, ahead of the
combustion chambers."

She showed him how, and explained its working. Travis didn't get the
whole thing, but he understood enough to know that even the Chalmers
rockets would be improved with this contraption. It smoothed the
blastings of the jets, built them up on their own power. The ship
would be like a bullet that, once shot from the gun, would receive
another firing every ten feet. It was speed added to speed.

Nuala smiled at his blank look, "Don't bother about whys and wherefors.
Just let me handle things."

       *       *       *       *       *

Travis grumbled under his breath, cramped under the jets and installing
the super-blaster. It fretted his male pride to feel that a woman--even
such a woman as Nuala--knew more about the workings of his own
space-ship than he knew himself.

He hit a Litson wrench against a fitting in anger. "All this talk of
Rudra. The eternal werwile! Blah! How do I know there _is_ any such
person?"

The thought stopped him. He lay there in the cramped space between
jet-sheathing and baffles and grinned at his own stupidity. "How do I
know she's the one I came out here to find, even? I never saw her in
the calyx!" Deep in the heart of him, he knew that Nuala was--Nuala.
Her eyes told him that. He muttered, "Just the same, I don't have any
proof about this werwile!"

He crawled out of the rocket-room and stood up in the narrow corridor,
wiping sweat from his eyes. Under his feet the floor quivered as
the rockets thundered into life. Travis put a calloused hand on a
wall-rail. The rockets blasted faster, turning the corridor into a
maelstrom of sound.

The ship was lifting, leaving the blackened planet and the ruined
temples far below it. There was a sudden weightlessness to his body
that told him they were out in space, now, slipping along with
vertiginous speed.

He clanked the lock on the rocket-chamber door and went to find Nuala.

She was bent over the control panel, moving her white fingers across
the dials. She did not look up when he came to a stop beside her. She
merely said, "I'll have to take this all apart. Your wiring system is
only 87 per cent efficient."

"That's pretty good," Travis rasped, "On the first trampers that went
to the moon, 35 per cent was hot stuff."

Nuala sniffed and reached for a kit of tools. Travis put out a hand and
closed it on her wrist. She looked up at him from under long yellow
eyelashes.

"How do I know there _is_ a Rudra?" he said harshly. "How do I know you
aren't just using me for ... for...."

"For what?" she asked serenely, not moving to draw her wrist away.
"Where in all your worlds would I want to go? I know everything there
is to know about them--and you."

"Even--Jonquilon?"

She let amusement reach up through the blue of her eyes. She mocked him
gravely, "I know about that weekend you spent with her, when you let
the museum get scooped on the canal-men bones on Mars."

Travis let her hand go. He grumbled, "It was worth it."

Her laughter was like silver droplets. She mocked, "What do you know
about women? Have you ever seen the water-girls on Tasselas, or the
bubble-women that float in the Magellanic cluster? I could show you
ways of--"

She broke off and shook herself. She said dryly, "I'm letting my
emotions run away with me. I can't do that with the werwile. And,
speaking of him--you ask proof, do you?"

Nuala shrugged. "I really can't prove him to you except by showing him.
Trust me for three--four days. Then you will have your proof." The
fear was back in her eyes as she whispered, "You will have it then. By
Grock, you will have it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

They hit the Break a thousand light-years from Van Maanen's star.
Travis could see it through the thick, curved window: an oval of
darkness somehow shades deeper than the black of space. The pointed
prow of the spacer steadied, then sped on. The slit grew larger.

"Pray Grock that Rudra is amusing himself with some new form of life,"
Nuala whispered, white hand gripping the lever of the speed control.
"If he suspects we're entering his little world, he'll scatter our
remains across the cluster."

Travis prowled restlessly around the small room. He felt useless
beside Nuala. He glanced at the dials and levers she had improved, at
the racked disintegrators that the girl, with a hellish cunning, had
out-moded by making them into larger replicas of the pencil-guns. His
hard palms slid down his leather jacket, restless, eager to come to
grips with something.

The Break was on them, and they were in it. Darkness shrouded the ship,
but the rockets thundered through the insulation-sheets. Travis upped
the lights with a flip of his hand. Even at full brilliance, he saw
Nuala through a pale haze.

"The Break is a barrier that Rudra threw up around his worlds after he
smashed Flormaseron. He has three planets all to himself. One is his
laboratory, one his armory, one his palace. We'd have no chance at all
by attacking the first two. Only on his palace-planet--where he retires
to his kinds of pleasure--can we surprise him."

The darkness went away and they were back in space again. Far ahead of
them a star glittered with blue shimmerings. Faint and distant from the
star, tiny gray balls in space, were three planets.

Nuala touched a stud on the steel wall. "A force-sheath," she smiled.
"We'd never get close enough to the planet to land if we didn't have
it." A whiteness swept up before the windows, hiding the star and the
three planets. Nuala moved forward, past Travis. With a touch of her
finger, she slipped on the automatic pilot.

"There. Now we can do nothing else but--wait."

They did not wait long. The humming alarm of the warning buzzer drove
Nuala to the controls. With speeding hands, she upped the force sheath
stud, depressed the landing lever. Travis was at her side, staring down
at rolling grasslands, at the distant peak of a snow-topped mountain.
He muttered, "It looks like Earth!"

The space-ship rode on its belly across the grass. Travis went to the
curved door and flung it open. Sweet cool air drove inside the room on
the wings of a breeze.

Something clanged against the metal doorlock. Hooves drummed on the
grass. Another pellet dented the hull of the ship, blew into a thousand
splinters. Travis got his face out of the way just in time. His hand
dropped to his holster, came up with the ringed _stil_-gun that had
been changed over by Nuala. Horsemen were approaching, fast.

He slammed a finger down on the trigger. Green flame blasted from the
muzzle, swept like a cloud across the grasses.

The horsemen came up the side of a hill, heading for the ship.
Before the green light reached them, Travis had a quick look at the
heavyset, white-skinned men who kneed their mounts, long tubes at their
shoulders. They looked like barbarians, but they held those queer tubes
in their hands.

Nuala screamed, "Atholiners! Quick--jump for it!"

She was at his side, clutching at his hands. "Those little
pellets--they'll eat everything they hit. Quick! By Grock ... be quick!"

Travis had a confused glimpse of her flashing eyes, of a gaping hole
rapidly spreading along the smooth, metallic side of the ship. His legs
tensed, and he was jumping. Ahead of him the green light was bathing
the horsemen in its verdant flame. A man screamed. The scream gurgled,
died abruptly.

He landed and rolled. He came to his feet, _stil_-gun in hand. The
horsemen were just particles of lazily floating dust. Travis turned to
his ship, saw it eaten before his eyes, as though an invisible beast
were champing on it, taking huge mouthfuls.

Then the ship was gone, and he and Nuala stood alone on the grassy
knoll.

"Some surprise party," he said, and laughed harshly. "We have one
gun--which doesn't mean a thing, if Rudra is anything like you think he
is."

"Rudra? Yes, we must think of him. He may or may not know we are
here." She looked about at the windswept knoll, at the gnarled pine
trees standing straight and tall, bleak and stern. She glanced away,
toward a tier of flattish rocks. "Sometimes his horsemen take care
of--intruders. Sometimes he lets visitors--wander. Never has he let
them escape him for very long."

Something of the menace of the man beat at Travis, as though a cold
wind moaned above the pines and blew past his ear with mocking words.
_Rudra will get you if you don't watch out. Rudra has never let a
visitor escape him for very long._

He put his hands on his _stil_-gun and stroked its rounded grip. "We
can't just stay here. We'd starve to death in these wilds." His
hand indicated the windbent oaks below, the gaunt pines, the rolling
grasslands that lifted toward distant hills.

Nuala brooded at him. Her red mouth quirked, almost angrily. She
snapped, "I've been thinking! We still can surprise him if we could get
into Kovokod, the main city."

"Why not go disguised as some of his people?" Travis wondered. He
grinned, "You could be my wife--"

Nuala sniffed her contempt. She lashed at him, "I am above emotions. I
am almost pure thought. Don't distract me from my planning."

Travis chuckled, "A couple of barbarians. We'd look pretty good as
nomads, wouldn't we? Well, what do you say? What's to stop us?"

Nuala snapped, "Our features! They are too delicate, too finely formed.
Rudra hastened the evolution of his people, speeded up their ascent in
time. They are still brutish, thick of nose, of lip."

"If we had some of the celluvalin. I could do a pretty fancy job on our
faces. I've moulded life forms in clay often enough for Solar Museum."

Nuala eyed him wonderingly. "You are a young race, but you Earth-things
do come up with some good ideas. There will be medical centers on
Rudraline. If we can find one, there will be celluvalin there."

They set out under the pines, walking for the windbent oaks, side by
side.

       *       *       *       *       *

For three days they moved southward. Here and there were farms,
sprawled across the land. Travis walked with his eyes on them, studying
the architecture, the terrain. Already, he told himself, he could do a
few panoramic windows for Solar--if he ever got out of this thing alive.

Once Nuala caught him by the wrist, dragged him back to the shelter of
a dwarf bush. She whispered, "A caravan. The Rudraldians are taking
their produce to market at Kovokod!"

Travis watched, fascinated. The horsemen in plain leather harness rode
with the ease of Cossacks in the saddle, far ahead of the slower-footed
pack-animals, giant sloth-like creatures in rich trappings. They
bore ornate palanquins on their backs, or pulled huge wagons by
gilded reins. In the middle of the caravan rode the nobles, draped in
cloth-of-gold, glittering with jewels.

Nuala shook his shoulder. She hissed. "We can't waste time. Quickly,
now. They are almost past--"

They scrambled unseen onto a wagon....

They found a medical station in the dawn of the fourth day. There was
a nurse inside, asleep at the table. Nuala crossed the room with long
strides, bent over her from the rear, did something to her at the base
of the skull with her fingertips. The nurse pitched forward, sprawled
along the edge of the table.

Travis scooped handsful of _celluvalin_ from an earthern jar and went
to work on his face before a mirror. With steady fingers he altered his
nose, broadened and widened it, gave it a snoutish look. He modeled
his mouth to brutish slackness. He lowered his forehead. When he was
through he was a step above the ape.

Nuala was watching him with wide eyes. She whispered, "I do not like
you--like that."

He stood over her, toweling his hands. He said, "I feel different, too.
Almost like a--beast."

She was near him, blue eyes uplifted, red mouth quivering. He put his
hands on her arms, lifted her against him. He bent and kissed her. For
a single instant she yielded to him and her mouth was a honeyed fire.
Then she thrust him away, stood panting. Her anger crackled in her
eyes, in the rise of her pointed breasts.

"You are a beast! You--"

Travis chuckled, "I just had to do it, honey. I wanted to see what it
was like."

He scooped _celluvalin_ in a hand and slapped it down on her cheek.
He worked swiftly, moulding and shaping the cell-jelly before it
hardened and adhered to her skin. By the time he was finished, her
rage was spent. He stepped back, eyed her calculatingly. He nodded.
"You look just like the nurse, now. Not a bad job, if I do ring my own
alarm-bell."

Nuala lifted the mirror and looked into it for a long moment. Once she
lifted her eyes and stared enigmatically at Travis. Then she casually
lifted a hand and undid the fastenings of her translucent gown. Calmly
she stepped from it, ignoring Travis's sudden, "Hey!"

She lifted the white uniform from the prostrate nurse. Deftly she
hooked it about her and stood back. "Now the resemblance is complete.
I will be a nurse. You--my amorous Earth-thing--will be my patient. A
mental deficient. You look the part perfectly."

Travis went, "Ouch!" and followed her out into the sunlight.

Toward noon they were overtaken on the broad highway by an advance
guard of horsemen for another caravan. One of the horsemen shouted at
them. Nuala screamed back. Not understanding their language--Nuala had
always spoken spaceenglish to him--he said, "What'd they want to know?"

"If my _babuvol_ was too poor to buy me a horse," she snapped.

"_Babuvol?_"

"Husband to you, Mate. I told them you weren't my husband." She added
sweetly, "I said you were crazy, that you suffered from the delusion of
having glass toes, among other things."

Travis scowled at her as she swung along blithely. He thought of a
remark, but ignored it.

The caravan crept up to them, engulfed them. Travis stared rudely at
the sleek horses, at the handsomely wrought designs on saddle and
stirrup. He eyed the monstrous pack-sloths carefully, making sure that
he was nowhere near the flat, gigantic paws when they tromped down on
the road. He caught sudden glimpses of foodstuffs, of silver jars, of
priceless tapestries.

Once a nobleman reined in his mount and spoke to them. Nuala did not
raise her eyes but she murmured, "He is a feeble one, lordship. There
is a sickness in his mind. If you could hear him speak--"

She nudged Travis with an elbow, hissed into his ear, "Say something
for the man, idiot!"

Travis babbled, "Intry-mintry, look so sly--spaceman, spaceman, in your
eye!" from the words of a song currently popular on Mars.

The nobleman made a pitying sound with his lips, ignoring Travis's
glare. He tossed a ring to Nuala. "The protection of the Lord Railan,
nurse."

Nuala hid the ring in a pocket. Eyes straight ahead, she said to
Travis, "It was a happy thought, your passing as a lunatic. It is a
part that comes easily to you."

The ring was a talisman that hired mounts, servants. The engraved seal
on the circlet opened men's eyes, and when Nuala whispered suavely,
"The Lord Railan will pay double ..." the charm was complete. Soon they
left the caravan and went on ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

The twin towers of Kovokod were banded white and black. They dozed
in the sunlight above the walled city. Outside the walls were sloped
launching cradles for stratosphere fliers and spacers. Like toys,
pilots and passengers moved from stationhouse to ladders, crossed back
and forth. Occasionally a police flier spiralled slowly over the ramped
buildings and arched levels of the city. Travis could see tri-wheeled
vehicles speeding back and forth on the raised streets.

Nuala gestured and Travis saw a huge gate swarming with men and women
on foot, on horse, or seated luxuriously in the tri-wheelers. "We'll
mingle with the crowd. That way, and with the ring, we can get in
easily enough."

Travis gawked at the throngs. Nuala spoke occasionally, and Travis
knew she was calling attention to his mental state. She was mocking
him, but Travis added to her words by singing ribald ditties that were
famous from Earth to Centauri. He even made up one about Nuala. Only
her sudden hiss and pinch brought remembrance that she could speak any
tongue.

The guard at the gate eyed the ring and Nuala. He licked his lips at
her words and let them through. They faded into the crowds, Nuala
walking swiftly, not giving Travis a chance to stare at the straight,
many-windowed buildings, the ornate balconies, the several roads that
were like lattices linking the city together.

"We must get into one of those towers!" Nuala hissed. "They are Rudra's
laboratories. There he houses his discoveries, the rarest weapons, the
finest engines."

"Maybe the ring--?"

"Not for the towers. I know this world, from the crypt. I have spent
too many years spying on Rudra."

Travis rubbed his knuckles thoughtfully. He murmured, "I wanted
something to come to grips with. Maybe I can get you into the tower."

The tower entrance was like a halved egg, bulging out from the straight
wall of the black-and-white structure. There was no visible means of
entry. It seemed a sheer rounded oval of stone. Travis stared at it
uncertainly, walking past.

"Are you sure?" he asked Nuala. "That doesn't look like a door to me!"

"What do you know of doors?" she snapped. "It opens to vibratory
impulses. Walk close enough and it will open--and a blast of power will
turn you into smoke."

Travis fingered his jaw. "If I walk toward it and just as the thing
opens I dart aside ... it might miss me."

"A crude approach," observed Nuala, but her eyes were thoughtful.

Stung, Travis snarled, "Sometimes you accomplish more by crudeness. If
the other guy isn't expecting it."

He would not have done it, if he hadn't felt so helpless and useless
beside Nuala. He knew it was foolhardy, even as he ran, right hand
going for the _stil_-gun. In a soberer moment he would have waited,
have let her figure out the answer, as she had figured out the other
answers.

His dark hair whipped in the wind that came up the street when he slid
to a halt. The egg-shaped adit was lifting, disclosing black depths
behind it, glittering metal, a running figure.

Nuala screamed, but Travis moved before he heard her. The _stil_-gun
belched green mist into the darkness. Travis was sliding, scrambling
aside.

Light--dazzling, blinding light--shot out of the glittering metal
engine just before the green mist touched it. The light was hot.
Crouched against the wall, face turned away from its brilliance, Travis
felt the heat of it. His brow beaded with sweat. The black hairs on his
forearms stank where they crisped.

Nuala went by him, crying, "Now! Now!"

Staggering, he followed her. She went into the blackness, was a pool
of whiteness for an instant. He came low and fast on her heels. The
closing doors scraped his leg, it was that close.

The engine that spit the light beam was gone. There was just a gaping
hole in the metal floor, a bent armature pulled loose from its housing,
a glob of red flesh....

Nuala was on the staircase, going up. Travis saw a Kovokodan face
leer at her, saw a tube lifted. He showered the face with green mist,
watched it explode, blow into powder. Then he was beside her, thrusting
her back.

"I'll take the lead," he growled.

He used the _stil_-gun twice more before they reached the big chamber
at the top of the tower. Facing death, taking risks, using the muscles
of his space-hardened body, Travis felt the elixir of battle pound in
his veins. He was a person again, not just a thing dragged along by the
last woman of the Nekkalad.

Nuala went by him as he stood in the doorway. She raced to banks
of buttons spread across the western wall of the room. Her fingers
slammed down, played like the digits of a Venusian pianist across the
complicated keyboard.

She was just in time. The floor shuddered under their feet as the tower
rocked. But the floor held. And the tower stood. Nuala threw back her
head, flung wild and eerie laughter at the flat ceiling.

"By Grock, I've won! I've _won_!"

She put trembling fingers to her face, clawed at it, tearing strips of
flesh away. Travis opened his mouth, closed it. Bit by bit, she pulled
the _celluvalin_ loose and cast it from her. She swung about, faced
Travis. Once more her face was lovely, mouth warm and kissable.

"You helped me, Earth-thing. You helped me get here! I'll reward you
for that!" She lifted her arms, did a girlish pirouette.

Travis growled, "What about Rudra?"

She laughed. It was like tuned glass tinkling. "Rudra himself
discovered the warp-sheath. I've pulled this tower into another
dimension. He can't harm us because he can't find us! Oh, Travis, my
dear...."

Her hands touched his nose and mouth. Gently she removed the
_celluvalin_, cleansed his cheeks until he stood tan and grim-lipped,
the Clark Travis she first had seen in the pink barrier outside the
calyx chamber.

"Now, Clark Travis ... you may kiss me!"

He stretched out his arms, caught her warm and soft against him, bent
his mouth--

"Charming," sneered a cold voice. "Of the _kovokodans_, this I would
have expected, but you two are from a higher race--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He stood in the center of the room, tall and lean; his height and
spareness emphasized by the black cloak he pulled about him as though
against the cold. His thin lips sneered. The narrow brows above black
eyes were upraised to form two living insults.

Nuala whimpered. She thrust a hand to her mouth. "Rudra!"

The dark man moved forward. Now Travis could see a circlet of tiny
stars, revolving and shimmering, coruscating light, that swung like a
fallen halo about his head. As the man went, so went the ever-turning
stars.

"You know me? But you must, to be so familiar with my sciences. I do
not know ... you. Or do I?"

The black eyes touched Travis, slid away. Travis growled low in his
throat at the blank dismissal of those eyes. He was less than a slug,
not given as much courtesy as a canal-minnow. Nuala was shrinking back
against his chest as the eyes drove into her.

Rudra whispered, "But--_you_! You are familiar. Something from out
of the past ... the dead past ... centuries ... eons ... ages ago. A
woman--a queen--Nuatha of the Yellow Hair. Queen of the Nekkalad!"

"I am Nuala. Her daughter."

Rudra looked interested. Nuala went on, "Before you smashed
Flormaseron, my parents and the Nekkalad scientists imprisoned me in
your own crystal crypt. They fed me energy ... and the thought-waves of
all living things. I know of you, Rudra, of your plans...."

The dark man laughed. "By my beginning! I am knowing the first interest
I've had in a thousand million centuries. You've set yourself up
against--me? Against the eternal one? The Werwile?"

Nuala moved her white fingers in a queer pattern. They seemed to blur
before Travis's eyes, become faint and shadowy. Her hand disappeared.
Rudra moved suddenly, swore by a long-forgotten god. He said abruptly,
"You'd pull my heart into a different space-time, would you? Leave me
locked forever in some blackness?"

His own hands moved, but Nuala was quicker. Her body swayed, twisted in
odd manner. She disappeared. Rudra cried out. He brought his hand back
to view again. There were teethmarks and blood on it. Nuala formed,
laughed softly beside Travis; blood on her ruby mouth.

"Am I a fit opponent, Rudra--not-long-to-be-eternal?"

Rudra nursed his bitten hand in the black cloak. His black eyes
glittered dangerously above the beaked nose, the ruddy mouth. Travis
thought he looked like a cornered Saturnian vampire at that moment.

Rudra laughed. It was, surprisingly, a pleasant laugh. He bowed, and
there was no mockery in it.

"You are a worthy opponent, Nuala. None that I know of could have done
that to me--but you. You say you know my plans? Good! You know my
thoughts, my sciences? Good again. Two equal opponents--you with that
creature beside you to aid you, me with my _kovokodans_. Let us see who
will turn the tide....

"I had the Lord Railan and others ease your way to me. I was--curious.
Now I am glad. I will enjoy our duel, Nuala. Good--hunting!"

He was gone.

The silence was cold, as though his passing had taken a fire from the
room. Nuala shivered, looked dubiously at Travis. He said tactlessly,
"I thought you said you'd won."

"I--underestimated him. I'd forgotten that Rudra smashed Flormaseron,
that he has all the science that ever was at his fingertips. I thought
that by taking his tower into another dimension I could strike at him
before he knew where we were. Strike and annihilate! Now ... I do not
know."

[Illustration: "_I--I--underestimated him!_"]

There was doubt in the blue eyes, and the old fear. Only the fear was
stronger, now. It was a curiously tangible thing, beating out and
around the room, running chilled tentacles down Travis's back.

He shook himself, said savagely, "So we can't surprise him. Then let's
slug it out, toe to toe. It's him or--us!"

"But he has so many sciences ..." she wailed.

"Sciences you know just as well!" Travis snapped. "And before we're
over it'll be the first law of nature all over again. The survival
of--the fittest!"

"If I only knew what he meant to do--"

Travis choked. He put out a hand, vised it on her arm. "The crypt! By
the eternal! If you could move this tower into another dimension--move
it to Flormaseron! Enter the calyx! Tap his mind! Checkmate him!"

Hope dawned in the blue eyes. Hope stilled the shudder rippling
down her back. She cried, "Yes, yes. That's our chance, our one big
weapon--the calyx!"

Nuala moved her hands in that queer, flowing motion. Her eyes were
wide and staring. She whispered, "It is easier to move the warping
controls--this way. The distances in the dimensional flows are shorter."

There was a faint dizziness as the tower reeled. Travis had an odd
instant of vision, where he saw whirling clouds of elfin dust, heard
the discordant music of distorted space. In mind's eye, he glimpsed the
tower as it swung through a blackness striped with red traceries. There
was a jar, a sudden shock--

       *       *       *       *       *

A wall of the tower shone with iridescent nacre. Through the pale pearl
glitter, Travis saw the chamber of the calyx, the cones and globes
circling endlessly and shedding their soft light, the great sculped-out
hollow of the crystal.

"Step quickly," whispered Nuala. "Step through...."

She was a blur of movement, leaping for the nacre. Travis clutched for
her hand and found it warm and soft as he hit the shimmer with her. A
moment of cold, then they were inside the crystal crypt. Nuala went to
the crystal, lay down within it, attached wires to grips, rested her
golden head against the oddly wrought headpiece that was wired to the
dynamos.

Travis watched her hands lift and blur as a faint, nauseous color came
seeping up through the very stones of the floor. Travis knew that some
light-colors could affect people physically, but this was sickening,
overpowering. Much of that color, and he would go mad. His brain
reeled. His stomach writhed--

The light went away, but Nuala's hands were still invisible, as she
worked the forces hidden within the captured tower. Travis knew
she was hitting back at Rudra, reading his mind, searching for and
finding the counter-agent, the necessary checkmate. Her eyes opened a
second, looked into his. She whispered, "Watch the screen, Travis. The
screen...."

He could see now what she was doing. The west wall of the tower that
appeared through the nacre light was a giant visiscreen. In it the
tower of Rudra in his city of Kovokod stood like a blackened giant
above the ruins of the leveled city. Stone buildings were tossed
and flattened. Smoke eddied upward in huge billows from charred and
stark stumps of buildings. A woman fled with clothes ablaze along
the upended stones of what had been a broad street. From the black
and sullen sky red and fiery balls rolled and thundered, broke and
splashed, devouring, on the city. The balls toppled walls, exploding;
ate up wooden buildings with flaming tongues, caught and engulfed human
beings, burning.

Sickened, Travis turned away--

It caught him, then. Bent and flung him back. Staring, he saw Nuala
half out of the crystal block, rigid and writhing, twisted and
distorted by some queer force. Her red mouth drew back in agony,
screams gurgling in her throat.

And bent and twisted in her likeness, straining until their molecules
whined, were the dynamos and cones and globes.

"Magnetic ... flux ... by Grock! Grock!" she screamed. "I can't hang
on. It's got me. Grock ... good Grock...."

Travis dove to yank her free--and ran into it. He felt it in his
fingers, first. It was a maddening wrench that bent them as if they
had been boneless. He leaped sideways and the thing caught him in the
middle. On hands and knees he crawled away, crawled toward the only
spot that offered safety.

He slid into the nacre coldness, dropped onto the stone floor of the
captured tower. Sobbing, he lay there, listening to Nuala scream.

_This is the end of it. There is no way out_--

No way out. Only death from torture. Or--maybe not death. Just torture
for Nuala. He remembered the pink and menacing girdle that secured the
crypt from the _arklings_. The unseen voices, recorded somehow by the
first humanoid race, had told of tortures--_Nuala, stop screaming! God,
I can't stand it!_

Nuala, screaming. And Rudra--gloating!

Rudra!

Travis lifted his tanned face. His eyes burned savagely, staring across
the tower toward the dials and levers that controlled those forces
that only Rudra and Nuala understood. Travis moved his hands, getting
to his feet. He looked at his hands, balled them into hard fists.
He whispered, "I wanted something to come to grips with. I needed
something to put my hands on, to hit, to batter!"

Travis snarled, "Rudra!" and slammed his hands on the levers. He had
watched Nuala move them. He knew how to move the tower through the
dimensional paths Nuala had guided it.

Under his feet the tower swayed, reeled sickeningly.

And then--

The two towers met with a jarring crash. Travis was already in midair,
leaping through the gap. Stones met and tumbled. The roof of Rudra's
blackened tower was caving in. Travis swept through the air, aimed for
a crumbled section of roofing. His hands went out to fasten on smashed
tile. Through the rent, he saw Rudra at his visiscreen, laughing at the
twisted, helpless thing that was Nuala in the calyx--

       *       *       *       *       *

Travis went mad. He leaped for Rudra, leaped from the roof. His fist
caught him beside the cheek, drove his head back. His knees hit the
man's chest as he fell, toppled him backward. Sobbing, Travis went for
him even before he hit the floor.

They rolled across the tiling, bounced off the metal leg of a table,
rammed into the base of the great visiscreen. Travis fought with
the strength of a hundred men, thinking of the crumpled loveliness
of Nuala. His fists were as ten. His endurance seemed drawn from a
bottomless well of energy. He fought and hammered and sobbed, a red
haze of fury floating before his eyes.

And Rudra weathered the storm. The stars that circled about his head
glowed brighter and brighter. Strength grew and grew in Rudra's body.
He broke free of Travis, thrust him back with a vicious kick: laughed
at him. He moved his hands in the fluid motion and there was blind,
stabbing pain in Travis's guts, an agony that lanced red-hot needles
from the roots of his hair to his toenails.

Travis rolled on the floor, clutching his broken body. He saw legs, hit
them. Rudra fell over him.

Travis summoned all his strength, tore loose from the pain inside him,
fell on Rudra. The revolving stars cut his lip, blinded him with their
brilliance.

It was a voice whispering inside him, like Nuala's voice. "_The
star-girdle is his weakness. Break the stars and you break Rudra.
Without the stars, Rudra is_--nothing!"

Travis lifted his hands and closed them on the stars. Rudra whispered.
For the first time, Travis detected fear in the man's eyes. He tried to
wrench free, brought his hands back from inside Travis, scrabbled for
his wrists.

Silently they struggled there. The pain was gone and Travis knew that
this was it. He had to win now, or not at all. Now ... _now_....

The stars came free. They whispered sibilantly, loosening in their
orbit, shooting wildly across the room. They stung and bit into
Travis's hands. They whirled, exploding into puffs of silvery dust.
The dust showered down on Rudra, on Travis. It stung the nostrils, the
eyeballs....

"Rudra!" whispered Travis.

There was no Rudra, only a widening glob of black wetness, melting away
as wax melts from a candle in fierce heat. Travis rolled free, slapped
at the blackish stains on spaceslacks and jacket.

The blob of jelly loosened rapidly, went to liquid as a breeze swept
over the ruined city and into the blasted tower. The liquid ran freely,
went down the cracks, dripped wetly on the rafters and the stones far
below.

_Ancient! Ancient! So old the tongues of men had no word for it. From
the beginning he was, and was no more...._

Travis turned away from the stench. He stumbled across the room toward
the control levers on the wall. With trembling hands he shut them off.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was easy, going back. Through the nacre curtain, as the tower
settled down, Travis saw Nuala standing beside the shattered calyx.
Both hands were plunged in her thick golden hair. Her blue eyes were
blank and staring.

Her memory is gone, Travis thought, running toward her. The pain and
the magnetic flux did it. She isn't Nuala of the crystal crypt any
longer. She is only a girl.

His dream of Nuala cooking a _jalanadon_ steak in his little apartment
at Mars Port would come true. This Nuala he could marry.

Travis caught her in his arms. Her lips were sweet as he bent and
kissed her.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WERWILE OF THE CRYSTAL CRYPT ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
